ID: vol054_lbg-630-5-tag-v-54#1920-02#006
ISSUE: 1920-02  VOL: 54  SECTION: FRUITS.
TITLE: THE POSSIBILITIES OF CITRUS CULTURE IN SOUTH INDIA.\*
BYLINE: A.-H. WHITTLE, "ORCHARD DENE," YERCAUD.
WORDS: 2357  PAGES: ['78', '79', '80', '81', '82']
IA: https://archive.org/details/lbg.630.5.tag.v.54/page/n25/mode/1up

=== TEXT ===
## THE POSSIBILITIES OF CITRUS CULTURE IN SOUTH INDIA.\*

A.-H. WHITTLE, "ORCHARD DENE," YERCAUD.

Much interest has been awakened in recent years in the cultivation of fruit, and the production of articles of consumption previously imported. There is no doubt that, if the subject was better understood and the knowledge properly applied, the greater proportion of the money paid to outside producers might be kept in the country, not only to the material economic advantage of India, but also from a health point of view.

India—and I may even confine my statement to apply to the Madras Presidency—with its varying altitudes and climate is, in my opinion, as near as possible ideal for the cultivation of almost every known variety of fruit, and, what with the ever improving economic position of the majority of Indians, combined with Government assistance in opening up an experimental jam and preserve factory on the Nilgiris, there is, and always will be, a growing demand for really well-grown fruit.

At the present time, demand is undoubtedly out-pacing the supply.

Apart from the urgent need for fresh fruit, there is also a growing demand for preserves, cool drinks, etc., such as marmalade, candied citrus peel, raw and sweet lime juice, citric acid, crystals for mineral waters, and citrate of lime, which is used in its crude form for bleaching certain kinds of linen. Also other by-products which, owing to simple methods of manufacture, could easily be made in this country by any intelligent ryot, after receiving a few lessons from an expert of the Agricultural Department, and it is my good fortune to know how keen the officials of the Agricultural Department are, in every branch, to help one and to give valuable advice merely for the asking.

What with cheap labour, combined with a few simple and effective appliances for cultivation, and given facilities for irrigation where necessary, and average good land—such as is met with more or less all over the country—with an addition of fertilizers intelligently applied, we should not only be capable of producing enough first class fruit for our own requirements, but could compete most favourably with other exporting countries on the European markets.

The most suitable places in South India for citrus culture would be parts of the Nilgiris, Shevaroys, Kunnamallis and many other hills, the Malabar Coast, Wynad, and in fact, almost anywhere where there is good soil and ample rainfall, say, from 60 to 120 inches average, or, where irrigation is available.

---

\* Paper read at the Agricultural Conference at Coimbatore, December 16th, 1919.

Citrus fruits do best in deep loamy soil, rich in humus and the essential plant foods, but it has been my experience that almost any soil can be made to grow good healthy fruit trees; with proper preparation of the soil before planting, and, what with cheap labour, and suitable implements, which are available in the country at present, it is not a very difficult or expensive matter to bring some of the most intractable, and apparently indifferent looking soil into a fit state to grow excellent fruit trees. It is merely a matter of thoroughly working; and, in some cases, sub-soiling, draining, and ploughing in one or two green manure crops and adding suitable fertilizers, and the trees—other things being equal—will not only grow well, but very soon bear paying crops.

Now to the question of the right kind of plants to propagate or purchase. Cheap trees, merely because they are cheap, usually prove to be the most expensive in the long run: therefore, purchase your trees from a reliable Nurseryman and pay him a fair price for the very best trees he can produce. You may be told that a two or three year old plant, such as one sees in Nurseryman's show gardens and which are usually covered more or less with fungi of sorts, trying to grow in a 6 inch flower-pot, will make excellent growth when planted out, and will bear fruit in one or two years. These plants are sold at a low price and are usually not worth paying freight on. It is more economical to pay a good price for really well-grown healthy plants, free from leaf and other diseases and also guaranteed true to name, and thus avoid the possible dissemination of virulent plant diseases. It is to be hoped, now that the Pest Act is in force, Government will consider the necessity of inspecting plants offered for sale in every nursery in the country, and no one should be allowed to sell plants to the public without first obtaining an annual certificate of cleanliness from an authorized Government Expert. I know a case where a man spent considerable amount of money on citrus plants which were covered with a most destructive fungus disease, and, had it not been that he procured advice, and, had the plants properly treated in time, he would have lost the whole of them, and worse still, would have given up in despair an enterprise which has since proved a most remunerative undertaking, thinking that either the climate, or soil was unsuitable.

As regards suitable varieties, there are many, and, on looking through a catalogue one is often bewildered by the host of varieties named, all—or nearly all of which—appear to have special merits. As India is the home of the citrus tribe, it would be as well to consider the best of those usually grown in the locality, such as the Nagpur Sunthura Orange, the Sylhet, and a species of Mandarin Orange with a loose rind which grows well in South India, especially in Coorg, and which has come to be known locally as the Coorg Orange, are perhaps three of the best. Of imported varieties, there are Washington Navel, Navelencia, Mediterranean Sweet, paper rind, St. Michael, Joppa, and Valencia late—to mention only a few of the best known, all of which, in many cases, are doing well in this country. Then there is the Seville Orange (*C. vulgaris*) and sometimes called *C. Bigardia* or bitter orange, which is used extensively to the manufacture of marmalade, and also, for the extraction of essential oil from the rind, leaves and flowers, which is used as a base in the manufacture of some of the most expensive perfumes, and also for the manufacture of Citrate of Lime from the juice. A sample taken from this variety growing locally was found to contain 9 oz. of citric acid crystal per gallon of juice.

The Citron (*C. medica* Sp.), the rind of which is used in the manufacture of the candied peel of commerce, and for which there is a large demand. The juice of this fruit also has been tested and found to contain over  $7\frac{1}{2}$  oz. of citric acid per gallon of juice.

The Pomelo (*C. decumana*) which is sometimes called the Shaddock, grape fruit, etc. Apparently there are three varieties of this fruit grown in South India, although none of them could by any stretch of imagination be considered to resemble a grape in taste. There is no doubt, however, that there is more than one variety of this fruit which is really delicious when prepared by extracting the bitter membrane and sprinkling the pulp with sugar. I have it on the authority of an expert in such matters that it is a delicious and refreshing fruit to eat in the early morning (after the night before). There is no doubt that if this fruit with its vigour, deep rooting system, and enormous bearing qualities, were extensively grown, and the taste for it acquired, there would be an enormous demand at remunerative prices, and it probably will, in time, become as well-known and appreciated in India as it is in Europe and America at the present time.

The Lime (*C. medica* var. *acida*) of which there are at least three distinct kinds, viz., thorny, thornless and seedless. If possible, the thornless variety should be chosen for general cultivation owing to the convenient way in which pruning, gathering the fruit, and general cultivation can be carried out, and this applies especially in India, where the labourers generally work bare-footed. If, however, a thorny variety be planted the inconvenience of the thorns can, to a great extent, be overcome by careful handling at pruning time, by having some kind of cart hauled between the lines in which all prunings are thrown, and this will probably pay for doing, in view of the fact that, so far as is known at present, the thorny variety gives the highest percentage of citric acid. There does not appear to be any appreciable difference between the thorny and seedless varieties in this respect.

It is found, where limes are grown on a large scale, that the citric acid content of the juice varies considerably with the rainfall, that is, in a wet climate or season, the acid content is low, whereas, during dry weather or, where the average rainfall is small, the acid content is high, the variation being from 10 oz. per gallon in wet weather to 14 oz. in dry weather, tests in the West Indies. In June of this year, after trees growing in Yercaud had passed through a very severe dry weather, the juice tested as high as  $21\frac{1}{2}$  oz. per gallon whereas in December, after a long spell of wet weather, the test gave only 10 oz. to the gallon. At the same time, the variation in such figures may be more apparent than real, as fruit may contain more juice in a wet season than in a dry one, and it is quite possible that, although the percentage of citric acid per gallon may be lower in wet weather, the probable extra amount of juice will compensate or perhaps more than compensate for the higher percentage in dry weather fruit. Although the different kinds of limes in general cultivation do not appear to vary greatly either in acid content or the amount of juice per given weight of fruit, this is a point which appears to lend itself to very useful research work, both on the line of natural selection; and possibly through budding selected plants on to vigorous stocks, with a view to improve not only the yield of acid content, but also the improvement in quantity and quality of the essential oil in the rind, and this is a point well worth considering before planting out on a large scale, the main

issues being the citric acid percentage, quantity of juice and essential oil obtainable per acre. And I cannot find that, up to the present, this subject has been seriously studied in a scientific manner. It is obvious that an acre of limes giving an average of, say, 2,000 fruit per tree of 10 oz. acid content, is more profitable than one giving 200 per tree of the same sized fruit giving 20 oz. acid per gallon.

You will now naturally want to know the possible returns from citrus fruit growing, and this is a point on which I fear much controversy will arise, and, to avoid the possibility of a misunderstanding which may lead a prospective planter astray and cause him to invest his capital without a full knowledge of the subject, I will say at once that—other things being equal—much, in fact almost everything, depends on the individual. At the same time, there is no reason why anyone interested in fruit culture should go astray when really sound advice can so easily be obtained from the Agricultural Department and—strange as it may seem, I have much more faith in the eagle eye of an Entomologist or Mycologist than in a painted *challi* which one sometimes sees erected on a pole to ward off the evil eye! As there is now no excuse for anyone going astray on this point, I will give a few figures which may encourage some one to have a flutter at what I consider to be a paying proposition.

To begin on the safe side, I cannot—I think—do better than quote figures which I gave a fruit-planter who obtained my advice sometime ago in connection with his orange trees, which consisted principally of Mandarins, Washington Navel, Navelencia, St. Michael, Mediterranean Sweet, and Lemons; and as these figures refer to 9 year old trees which were allowed to overbear in the fourth year and suffered, not only in consequence of this, but also from neglect of the ordinary practices of cultivation for the remaining 5 years, they were in anything but good condition. I estimated that given proper cultivation and pruning, etc., each tree should give an average of 5 dozen perfect fruit the same season, which, considering the excellent varieties and the advantageous market conditions prevailing, would have sold at 8 annas per dozen, or Rs. 2'8'0 per tree, and this on over 700 trees, or roughly 7 acres or, say Rs. 250 an acre. Allowing Rs. 100 an acre for cultivation, manure, etc., and cost of marketing the crop, it would have left Rs. 150 an acre clear. Had these trees been properly cared for and Rs. 100 an acre spent annually on cultivation, pruning, and manure, they would have, at 9 years old, given considerably over 500 fruit per tree, and this is what I consider to be a fair average crop on well-cared for trees under general Indian conditions, for oranges, lemons, citrons, etc. Limes of course bear much heavier crops, and, owing to their being planted 15 ft. × 15 ft. apart, which would allow them ample room even on the best of soils and gives 193 trees per acre. I have seen trees which gave an annual crop of between three and five thousand limes of good size.

As to the prices obtainable for fruit in different districts, much depends on the market facilities on each plantation, it is impossible to give anything like an accurate statement as to possible profits in each district. But the figures I have given will, I think, enable any one interested in the subject to form a fair idea on this point. Unfortunately, I am unable to go into details of the manufacture and sale prices, etc., of citric acid in such a short paper as this must be. There are other aspects of Citrus culture, such as the preservation of fruit by the sweating process and allied subjects, which I fear, must be left out of this paper, also through lack of time. As it is, I am afraid I have over-stepped the time limit, and trust you will excuse the prolonged babbling of an enthusiast.—PLANTERS' CHRONICLE, Vol. XIV, No. 51.

[FEBRUARY, 1920.

=== MENTIONS (39) ===
type	text	norm	role
ESTATE	ORCHARD DENE	Orchard Dene	residence/estate of A. H. Whittle
EVENT	Agricultural Conference at Coimbatore	Agricultural Conference at Coimbatore	December 16th, 1919
EVENT	Pest Act	Pest Act	legislation in force
ORG	Agricultural Department	Agricultural Department	government department providing advice
PERSON	A.-H. WHITTLE	A. H. Whittle	author, 'Orchard Dene', Yercaud
PLACE	America	America	market for citrus
PLACE	Coimbatore	Coimbatore	location of Agricultural Conference
PLACE	Coorg	Coorg	region where Coorg Orange grows well
PLACE	Europe	Europe	market for citrus
PLACE	India	India	
PLACE	Kunnamallis	Kunnamallis	suitable place for citrus culture
PLACE	Madras Presidency	Madras Presidency	
PLACE	Malabar Coast	Malabar Coast	suitable place for citrus culture
PLACE	Nilgiris	Nilgiris	location of experimental jam and preserve factory
PLACE	Shevaroys	Shevaroys	suitable place for citrus culture
PLACE	South India	South India	
PLACE	West Indies	West Indies	location of citric acid tests
PLACE	Wynad	Wynad	suitable place for citrus culture
PLACE	YERCAUD	Yercaud	location of Orchard Dene
PUBLICATION	PLANTERS' CHRONICLE	Planters' Chronicle	journal, Vol. XIV, No. 51
TAXON	C. Bigardia	Citrus bigaradia	alternative name for bitter orange
TAXON	C. decumana	Citrus decumana	scientific name for Pomelo
TAXON	C. medica Sp.	Citrus medica	scientific name for Citron
TAXON	C. medica var. acida	Citrus medica var. acida	scientific name for Lime
TAXON	C. vulgaris	Citrus vulgaris	scientific name for Seville Orange
TAXON	Citron	Citrus medica	fruit used for candied peel
TAXON	Coorg Orange	Coorg Orange	Mandarin Orange variety
TAXON	Joppa	Joppa	imported citrus variety
TAXON	Lime	Citrus medica var. acida	citrus fruit
TAXON	Mediterranean Sweet	Mediterranean Sweet	imported citrus variety
TAXON	Nagpur Sunthura Orange	Nagpur Sunthura Orange	citrus variety
TAXON	Navelencia	Navelencia	imported citrus variety
TAXON	Pomelo	Citrus decumana	fruit also called Shaddock or grape fruit
TAXON	Seville Orange	Citrus vulgaris	bitter orange used for marmalade and oil
TAXON	Shaddock	Shaddock	common name for Pomelo
TAXON	St. Michael	St. Michael	imported citrus variety
TAXON	Sylhet	Sylhet Orange	citrus variety
TAXON	Valencia late	Valencia late	imported citrus variety
TAXON	Washington Navel	Washington Navel	imported citrus variety
