ID: vol060_lbg-tropicalagricultvol-lx-1923-0000unse-n0c4#1923-04#024
ISSUE: 1923-04  VOL: 60  SECTION: CO-OPERATION.
TITLE: CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATIONS IN CANADA.
BYLINE: 
WORDS: 2437  PAGES: ['242', '243', '244', '245', '246']
IA: https://archive.org/details/lbg.tropicalagricultvol-lx.1923.0000unse_n0c4/page/n283/mode/1up

=== TEXT ===
## CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATIONS IN CANADA.

---

The agricultural co-operation movement is of comparatively recent origin in Canada, and its progress is due, amongst other causes, to the active encouragement given to it by the Federal and Provincial Departments of Agriculture and to the conditions arising out of the War. Canada being a comparatively new country, the development of agricultural co-operation has necessarily proceeded on somewhat different lines from those which it follows in older countries. Perhaps the most striking differences are the early application of co-operation to the sale of the staple agricultural products of the country, and the more rapid development of this form of co-operation in comparison with co-operative credit and the co-operative purchase of farm requisites.

*Grain.*—The grain industry is the most important branch of agriculture in Canada and was the first to which co-operation was applied on a large scale. The chief provinces devoting their energies to grain growing are the three prairie provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta. In these provinces Grain Growers' Associations and Co-operative Elevator Companies have been formed under Acts of the Provincial Legislatures, and the Governments have made loans in aid of organisation and of the acquisition and erection of elevators up to 85 per cent. of the estimated cost.

In 1920, on the discontinuance of the Canadian Wheat Board, a Wheat Markets Committee representing the provincial farmers and grain growers' associations was formed for the purpose of establishing a wheat marketing agency as a non-profit undertaking, and a draft agreement was drawn up by which it was proposed to bind the growers to deliver to the agency (to be known as the UNITED FARMERS' GRAIN CORPORATION, with its principal office in Winnipeg) all the wheat grown by them in Canada for five years. The Corporation, on the other hand, was to agree to sell the wheat at the best prices obtainable and to pay the whole amount received less handling, grading and selling charges. The Corporation was to be authorised to establish selling, statistical or other agencies in any city in the world and was to be given power to borrow money on the wheat delivered to it for sale, and to exercise all the rights of ownership without limitation. It was not found possible, however, to bring the scheme into operation in time to deal with the 1921 wheat crop, and at the end of the year the Canadian Council of Agriculture decided not to proceed with the project but to ask the Federal Government to reappoint the Wheat Board.

*Live Stock.*—The principal centres of the live stock industry of Canada are the provinces of Quebec, Ontario and Saskatchewan, and it is in these three provinces that the co-operative organisation of shipping, grading, stock-yarding and marketing has been most largely developed. It has also

been organised, however, in the Maritime Provinces (Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island) and recently an export cattle-pool covering the whole of Canada has been formed by the United Grain Growers, Ltd.

In Ontario the Provincial Department of Agriculture has issued elaborate suggestions, rules and regulations for the co-operative shipping and marketing of live stock in the province, with a model of a shipping statement. In Saskatchewan the first step towards the organisation of co-operative marketing was taken by the local Department of Agriculture, which issued a bulletin in 1912 explaining the method of co-operative marketing and the benefits to be obtained therefrom. As a result, 9 incorporated co-operative stock-marketing associations were formed in 1914, and this number had increased to 54 by 1920, exclusive of the unincorporated branches of the Saskatchewan Grain Growers' Association. To encourage the organisation of live stock marketing the Co-operative Organisation Branch of the Department supplies each new association, free of charge, with a set of receipts and account forms sufficient to record their marketing for one year, together with a bulletin explaining how the accounts should be kept.

In Quebec several of the sheep breeders' and wool producers' co-operative associations sell sheep co-operatively, their managing secretaries often being the agricultural representatives of the Department of Agriculture. In order to introduce co-operative live stock marketing in the Maritime Provinces, the Dominion Department of Agriculture in 1919 entered into an agreement with the farmers of a district near Bathurst, New Brunswick, to prepare and arrange for the co-operative sale of their sheep in the open market in the autumn of that year. Very good results were obtained from the sale and in the next year the scope of the work was extended to include cattle and hogs.

Following a visit to Great Britain in 1921 of a director and the treasurer of the United Grain Growers, Ltd., to study the live stock marketing conditions, an Export Cattle Pool was formed by the association, under which co-operative shipments were to be collected at country points and sent to Montreal where the accepted cattle would be graded and initial cash payments made according to weight and quality. After grading and payment shippers would be given participation certificates indicating the weight and quality supplied and the amount of cash advanced, Steers, heifers, cows and bulls would then be separately pooled and the gross selling price in each pool, minus cash advances, and expenses would be divided equally amongst contributors on the basis of live weight supplied. The Pool was not formed in time for the 1921 season.

*Dairying.*—Quebec and Ontario are the two chief dairying provinces. In Quebec a large amount of the co-operative dairying is in the hands of the Quebec Farmers' Central Co-operative Association, all the transactions of which are under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, who may take part at meetings of directors, appoint auditors and require the products to be graded by graders appointed by him if the interests of agriculture so require. Besides dairy products the association handles poultry, eggs, live stock, pressed meats, game, wool, vegetables, honey, apple, sugar, and syrup

and farm requisites. The export trade of the association is facilitated by the removal of restrictions on borrowing powers applied to other co-operative associations.

The co-operative sale of dairy products in Ontario is chiefly undertaken by the United Dairymen Co-operative, Ltd., which acts as the central selling agency for its patrons, either individuals or creameries or cheese factories, whether co-operative or otherwise. At first the company met with strenuous opposition from the local dealers and other interested persons, but it is becoming more and more the central selling agency for local cheese factories and other dairy enterprises.

Co-operative dairying in Prince Edward Island was started in 1891 when the Dominion Commissioner of Dairying visited the island and on behalf of the Dominion Government offered to supply the plant and operate a factory at a fixed charge and to market the butter and cheese, the farmers themselves erecting the necessary buildings. The success of the factory soon led to the formation of other co-operative factories.

In Saskatchewan, following the establishment of the Dairy Branch of the Department of Agriculture, an arrangement was made in 1907 whereby all the co-operative creameries voluntarily placed themselves under the supervision and direction of the Provincial Dairy Commissioner. By this arrangement the Dairy Branch engaged the managers, purchased all supplies, kept the accounts, marketed the produce and paid the patrons.

In Alberta there are about 53 co-operative creameries receiving cream according to grade and selling butter on the grades of the Dairy Commissioner of the Provincial Government. If desired, the Butter Marketing Service of the Department will act as a central selling agency, 250,000 dollars being allotted to the Department with which to make advances on butter sold. This is generally done to the amount of 80 per cent.

*Wool.*—The co-operative marketing of wool in Canada was started in 1914, and owes its growth almost entirely to the activity and initiative of the Dominion and Provincial Departments of Agriculture. In those early days the Departments supplied expert graders free of charge and undertook to act as central marketing agencies for any associations which might care to sell their wool in this manner. From the first the project was a success, 4 to 8 cents more per pound being obtained than could be secured by non-co-operative sellers. It was not, however, collective marketing alone that brought improvement, but the education of farmers in improving their flocks and wool and in grading and packing their produce for market. In 1917 a great step forward was made by the Dominion Government when it arranged for the proper storage in Toronto of the western wool clip and also negotiated with the banks for advances to wool growers. In 1918 the aim of the Government was achieved when the local associations all over Canada met together and formed their own central marketing association under the name of the Canadian Co-operative Wool Growers, Ltd., with headquarters in Toronto (chosen for its transport facilities and its conveniences for the buyers of Great Britain and the United States) and with warehouses and branches in the different provinces of Canada. In 1920 the company

marketed the wool of about 12,000 farmers, the amount received being about one-third of the total Canadian clip, of which 51 per cent. was sold to the American trader, 45 per cent. to the Canadian, and 4 per cent. to the English.

*Eggs and Poultry.*—Co-operative marketing of eggs is now being undertaken fairly generally throughout the Dominion. Its development has been made possible by the assistance given by the Dominion Poultry Division, and not only are the amalgamated producers' associations in some instances supplying a considerable proportion of the eggs for local consumption on certain markets, but one co-operative company (the United Farmers' Co-operative Co., Ltd., of Ontario) has become one of the largest exporters in the Dominion. In all, during 1920, rather more than 3,000,000 dozens of eggs were marketed co-operatively.

In Prince Edward Island the main marketing medium is the Co-operative Egg and Poultry Association, the members of which are grouped in separate branches known as Egg and Poultry Selling Associations or "Circles," each of which is designated by a number, the individual members in each circle being likewise designated by numbers which are stamped on their eggs. Each egg circle employs a collector who has charge of the collection of all eggs, ships them to the central candling station (at Charlotte Town, where there is also a poultry killing station and a central hatchery) and apportions the return to the members according to quantity and quality received. The remuneration of the collector may be either by way of salary or commission. The produce is not bought by the Association, but is consigned to it and sold by the business manager. A stated sum per unit is advanced on all produce received by the Association, some members being paid weekly and some monthly. The balance of the return often provides for all expenses and the reserve fund is distributed to members according to the net value of the produce marketed through the Association. This Association has served as a model for the development of co-operative egg and poultry marketing associations in various other provinces of the Dominion, but in Nova Scotia, where the conditions are different, the Poultry Department of the N.S. Agricultural College undertook to act as a central marketing agency for the local co-operative associations, taking 4 cents per dozen eggs of the proceeds of the sales for the handling and marketing expenses, the balance being paid to the managers of the local associations immediately the eggs were sold. The Department assumed no financial responsibility; it agreed to provide the outlet and assist in organising the circles, all other work devolving on the local managers.

*Fruit and Vegetables.*—The co-operative marketing of fruit and vegetables is most in evidence in the provinces of Ontario, Nova Scotia and British Columbia. In Ontario, which produces nearly 70 per cent. of the total fruit crop of Canada, there is no central selling organisation, and in

recent years the need for the formation of such an organisation has been strongly pressed. In Nova Scotia an Act was passed in 1912 to facilitate the incorporation of Farmers' Fruit, Produce and Warehouses Associations. Under this Act, the United Fruit Companies of Nova Scotia, Ltd., was formed, primarily for the handling of apples. The central company has representatives in Havana and London, these being the two chief markets, and also an intelligence system which keeps them informed every day from all the principal markets. When a big order is received the local companies are notified to have cars ready for shipment on a certain date from the local warehouses, where the fruit is stored and inspected by the company's inspectors to ensure a uniform and high standard.

In 1915 the Annapolis Valley associations subscribed 5,000 barrels of apples for the purpose of an advertising campaign carried out by the Nova Scotia Fruit Growers' Association. In addition, the Provincial Government gave a cash contribution, and an experienced representative was sent to England to advertise Nova Scotia fruit in the principal cities.

In British Columbia an amendment to the Agricultural Associations Act was passed in 1913, whereby duly incorporated associations might secure a Government loan amounting to 80 per cent. of the subscribed capital. The work of these associations was to assemble, grade and pack according to standard rules all fruit and vegetables grown by the respective shareholders, and otherwise to prepare them for market. At the same time a united selling and buying organisation was established under the name of the Okanagan United Growers' which in the first year handled sixty-five per cent. of the crop grown in the district and is now the price-setting factor in British Columbia.

The British Columbia Fruit Growers' Association, working in conjunction with the Provincial Department of Agriculture, advertises the fruit and vegetable products of the province in the markets of Alberta and Saskatchewan. Window cards are distributed free to the dealers, bulletins are inserted in the prairie newspapers, and a free booklet of eighty pages giving recipes and methods of canning is sent to all interested. Circulars referring to the fruits in season are also issued to all retailers every few weeks.

*Fruit Preserving.*—In 1917 the Ontario Department of Agriculture was instrumental in equipping a small community Canning Centre at Parkhill in which some thousands of pounds of fruit and vegetables and also chickens were canned, and sent to the Canadian Forces during the war. This centre was very successful and resulted in the formation of several other centres in the province. With the cessation of hostilities, however, all the canning centres were disbanded with the exception of that at Parkhill, which is now run as a co-operative community centre.—JOURNAL OF MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, VOL. XXIX., No. II,

=== MENTIONS (44) ===
type	text	norm	role
COMMODITY	apples	apples	fruit product
COMMODITY	butter	butter	dairy product
COMMODITY	cheese	cheese	dairy product
COMMODITY	eggs	eggs	agricultural product
COMMODITY	wheat	wheat	agricultural product
COMMODITY	wool	wool	agricultural product
ORG	British Columbia Fruit Growers' Association	British Columbia Fruit Growers' Association	fruit growers' association
ORG	Canadian Co-operative Wool Growers, Ltd.	Canadian Co-operative Wool Growers, Ltd.	central marketing association for wool
ORG	Canadian Council of Agriculture	Canadian Council of Agriculture	agricultural council
ORG	Canadian Forces	Canadian Forces	military organization
ORG	Canadian Wheat Board	Canadian Wheat Board	wheat marketing agency
ORG	Co-operative Egg and Poultry Association	Co-operative Egg and Poultry Association	marketing medium in Prince Edward Island
ORG	Co-operative Elevator Companies	Co-operative Elevator Companies	co-operative companies
ORG	Grain Growers' Associations	Grain Growers' Associations	co-operative associations
ORG	N.S. Agricultural College	N.S. Agricultural College	agricultural college in Nova Scotia
ORG	Nova Scotia Fruit Growers' Association	Nova Scotia Fruit Growers' Association	fruit growers' association
ORG	Okanagan United Growers'	Okanagan United Growers'	selling and buying organisation
ORG	Quebec Farmers' Central Co-operative Association	Quebec Farmers' Central Co-operative Association	co-operative association
ORG	United Dairymen Co-operative, Ltd.	United Dairymen Co-operative, Ltd.	central selling agency for dairy products
ORG	United Farmers' Co-operative Co., Ltd.	United Farmers' Co-operative Co., Ltd.	co-operative company, egg exporter
ORG	UNITED FARMERS' GRAIN CORPORATION	United Farmers' Grain Corporation	proposed wheat marketing agency
ORG	United Fruit Companies of Nova Scotia, Ltd.	United Fruit Companies of Nova Scotia, Ltd.	fruit handling company
ORG	United Grain Growers, Ltd.	United Grain Growers, Ltd.	association forming export cattle-pool
ORG	Wheat Markets Committee	Wheat Markets Committee	committee representing provincial farmers
PLACE	Alberta	Alberta	province
PLACE	Annapolis Valley	Annapolis Valley	region in Nova Scotia
PLACE	Bathurst	Bathurst	town in New Brunswick
PLACE	British Columbia	British Columbia	province
PLACE	Canada	Canada	country
PLACE	Charlotte Town	Charlotte Town	town, central candling station
PLACE	Havana	Havana	market city
PLACE	London	London	market city
PLACE	Manitoba	Manitoba	province
PLACE	Montreal	Montreal	city, grading and payment center
PLACE	New Brunswick	New Brunswick	province
PLACE	Nova Scotia	Nova Scotia	province
PLACE	Ontario	Ontario	province
PLACE	Parkhill	Parkhill	town in Ontario, canning centre
PLACE	Prince Edward Island	Prince Edward Island	province
PLACE	Quebec	Quebec	province
PLACE	Saskatchewan	Saskatchewan	province
PLACE	Toronto	Toronto	city, headquarters for wool marketing
PLACE	Winnipeg	Winnipeg	city, principal office location
PUBLICATION	JOURNAL OF MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE	Journal of Ministry of Agriculture	source publication
