ID: vol006_tropicalagricult18861887colo#1886-12#144
ISSUE: 1886-12  VOL: 6  SECTION: Correspondence
TITLE: TRIAL OF COLONIAL TIMBERS.
BYLINE: 
WORDS: 2022  PAGES: ['428', '429', '430']
IA: https://archive.org/details/tropicalagricult18861887colo/page/n445/mode/1up

=== TEXT ===
TRIAL OF COLONIAL TIMBERS.

An important and eminently interesting demonstration of the industrial value of colonial timbers was held on Friday afternoon, Oct. 8, at the works of Messrs. A. Ransome & Co., Chelsea, in the presence of about 150 gentlemen, including the Agents-General of the various Colonies and a few of the leading civil engineers, builders, timber merchants, and others interested in the employment of timber in various branches of trade. Among those present were Sir Philip Cunliffe-Owen, Mr. Edward Woods (President of the Institute of Civil Engineers), Sir Charles Hutton Gregory, Sir John Coode, Sir Frederick Bramwell, Sir Charles D. Fox, Sir Charles Mills, Sir Graham Berry, Sir Arthur Blyth, Sir James Garrick, Sir W. J. Clarke, the Hon. J. Gordon Sprigg, the Hon. Adye Douglas, the Hon. Malcolm Fraser, Mr. Alfred Dent (Commissioner for British North Borneo), Mr. Charles Hawksley, Mr. A. H. Vesey, Mr. Henry C. Beeton, Mr. Ernest E. Blake, Mr. F. G. Baker, Hon. Alex. Hay, Colonel Beddome, Colonel Percy Smith, Mr. J. R. Jefferies, Colonel Lees, Mr. W. B. Lewis, Mr. C. K. Stuart, Mr. Charles Hawksley, Mr. J. C. Homershaw, Mr. A. J. R. Trendell, Mr. H. Trendell, Professor Macoun, Mr. P. L. Simmonds, Mr. James Thomson, Mr. H. J. Scott, Major G. Malet, Mr. Sydney Cowper, Mr. George H. Hawtayne, C.M.G., Mr. J. L. Shand, Mr. F. R. Saunders, Mr. Oswald Brown, Mr. Alpin Thompson, Mr. N. P. Trevernen, Hon. R. H. Meade, C.B., Dr. Trimens, Mr. W. B. Pryer, Mr. F. Josselyn, and Messrs. A., J. S., and L. H. Ransome.

The object of the meeting was to test a number of important colonial timbers which, from want of a knowledge as to their qualities, have been hitherto commercially unknown in the English market, and with a view of practically exemplifying to what purposes they could be most advantageously applied, the various samples were converted by special machinery into such descriptions of work as the colonial experts present deemed them most suitable for. It is not too much to add that no more suitable or appropriate centre could be selected for such experiments than the Stanley Works, having regard to the world-wide eminence attained by Messrs. A. Ransome & Co. as manufacturers of every description of wood-working machinery. And, before going further, we may here compliment the firm on their public-

spirited action in the matter—action which cannot fail to advance the interests of the Colonies and India, as regards one of the most valuable of their natural resources.

The following is a list of the woods that were dealt with, together with a description of the uses for which they have proved most suitable:—

*New South Wales.*—Blue Gum for ship and house building, wheelwrights' work, posts and rails, plough beams, railway sleepers, &c.; Ironbark for carriage building, spokes of wheels, piles, and railway sleepers; Mountain Ash for wheelwrights' and coopers' work, palings, and general building purposes; Forest Oak for veneers, cabinet work, &c.

*Victoria.*—Blackwood for all kinds of cabinet work, carriage building, gun stocks, &c.; is also used for making casks; White Box for railway sleepers. Blue Gum for beams, joists, railway sleepers, piers, and bridges; Red Gum for veneers, furniture, railway sleepers, &c.

*South Australia.*—Red Gum for railway sleepers, fence posts, telegraph poles, jetty and bridge piles, wheelwrights' work, &c.; Blue Gum for railway sleepers, posts, piles, planking, and general building purposes; Sugar Gum for railway sleepers, jetty planking, bridge piles, felloes of wheels, naves, posts, &c.

*Western Australia.*—Karri wood for joiners' work, railway sleepers, furniture, cabinet work, &c.; Jarrah for joiners' work, railway sleepers, furniture, cabinet work, and piles; Raspberry Jam wood for ornamental woodwork and furniture; York Gum for spokes of wheels, &c.; Tuart for wheelwrights' and railway waggon work; Wandoo for wheelwrights' and railway waggon work.

*New Zealand.*—Black Pine for house-building, furniture, and cabinet work; Red Pine for house-building and general purposes; Totara for veneers, furniture, and cabinet work; Kauri for building, furniture, and all general purposes; also for making slack barrels, and pattern-makers' work.

*Canada.*—Douglas Fir for pattern-makers' work, joinery, furniture, building, and all general purposes; Bitternut, or Swamp Hickory for spokes of wheels, joinery, &c.; White Fir for joiners' work and general purposes; Black, or Swamp Ash for building purposes, joiners' work, and cask-making; Iron Wood for handles of hammers, and agricultural implements; also spokes of wheels.

*Cape of Good Hope.*—Yellow Wood for furniture, pattern-makers' and joiners' work, and general building purposes; Umzumbit for bearings, walking-sticks, and tool-handles; Box Wood for engraving purposes; Kamassi for engraving and turnery; Sneeze Wood for piles, posts, and Telegraph-poles, cabinet and waggon work; Stink Wood for building purposes, furniture, waggon work, &c.

*British North Borneo.*—Bilian for beams, piles, planks, &c.; Russock for building and general purposes; Serayah for furniture, veneers, and cabinet making.

*India.*—Tun, or Indian Mahogany for tea-boxes, and all kinds of furniture panels, and carving; Black Wood, or Rose Wood for furniture, gun-carriages, cart-wheels, agricultural implements, and fancy articles; Sissoo for felloes and naves of wheels, and carved work of all descriptions; Long-leaved Pine for tea-boxes and general building purposes; Padouk Wood for furniture, joinery, and carriage-building; Chugalam for furniture; Sei Wood for house and ship-building, also for making carts and waggons.

As the samples of woods from West Indies, Ceylon Queensland, Straits Settlements, Western Africa, and Fiji, were found too small for practical experiments, they do not appear in the above list.

The experiments, which were conducted with more than forty different varieties of timber from India and the Colonies, comprised tree felling, cross-cutting, sawing, planing, moulding, morticing, tenoning, and boring; while the manufacture of such things as casks, doors, pick handles, carriage spokes, and railway sleepers was carried to its completion and the articles exhibited to the assembled guests. The woods expri-

mented upon were of every variety, from the hardest iron-bark to the soft mild working Douglas fir, but the samples left the various machines with the same smooth finish, the only difference being that the harder qualities of wood were passed through the machines at a somewhat slower speed than the softer ones.

Among the more noticeable experiments were the felling of a rough log of hard Kauri (Western Australia) timber, 3 feet in diameter, which had been planted in an upright position in the yard, and which was sawn through close to the ground by Ransomes' patent tree-feller in four minutes, and the subsequent cross-cutting of a similar log in a still shorter time; the preparation of railway sleepers by a machine which in less than a minute planed the two rail seatings and bored the four spike holes; and the planing, grooving, tonguing, and beading at one operation of boards from each sample of timber submitted for experiment, the boards being passed through the machine at the rate of from 12 feet a minute for the harder woods to nearly 24 feet per minute for the softer woods. But perhaps the most interesting experiment of all was that of manufacturing light casks for spirits, &c., from such of the colonial woods as were suitable for that purpose. In this, the cooperage department, nine machines, worked alternately by one lad, were employed, of which four sufficed for the manufacture of the body of the cask, three for the preparation of the heads, and two for making the hoops. Although, in consequence of being made of different descriptions of wood, the casks presented a varied appearance, they were, in form and contents, all precisely alike, while in point of finish and solidity, they left nothing to be desired.

At the close of the experiments, and after some refreshments had been partaken of, a conference, at which Mr. Edward Woods presided, was held in the Pattern Room of the works for the purpose of eliciting information respecting the several varieties of timber experimented upon from the gentlemen representing the colonies in which they were obtained.

The proceedings were opened by Mr. Alan Ransome, who observed that those who had witnessed the experiments must have seen enough to convince them of the excellent quality and great serviceability of most colonial woods. The question, therefore, that now demanded solution was whether they could be imported into this country at a rate which would render them commercially useful. Summarising the conclusions arrived at from the experiments which his firm had that day and during the past fortnight been engaged in, he might state, in the first place, that among the 40 odd different species of timber dealt with, some stood out as pre-eminently suitable for the English market. There were iron bark and mountain ash from New South Wales, both suitable for wheelwrights' work, and the former, owing to its peculiar hardness, for piles and railway sleepers as well; black wood from Victoria, suitable for carriage building, cabinet work, and case making; Karri wood and Jarrah, from Western Australia, both useful for joiners' work, sleepers, furniture, and piles, of which he could say that there was no fault to be found; black pine, red pine, totara, and kauri, from New Zealand, which could be employed for furniture, cabinet work, house building, and general purposes, kauri being specially useful; Douglas fir and the swamp ash, from Canada, both suitable for building, joiners' work, &c., the latter being particularly sound, strong, tough, and cheap; yellow wood, stink wood, and sneeze wood, from the Cape of Good Hope, the two former species suitable for furniture, building, and joiners' work, and the latter, from its unusual durability, for piles, posts, telegraph poles, &c.; Billian and Serayah, from British North Borneo, the former suitable for beams, piles, and every purpose where durability was necessary, and the latter for furniture veneers, &c.; and, lastly, Padouk wood from India, which was suitable for joinery, carriage building, and furniture, was exceedingly plentiful, and was grown near the coast. Many samples of wood sent had un-

fortunately been too small for experiment, but of those operated upon he could say that they had all been found suitable, so far as quality was concerned, for their various purposes.

The Hon. MALCOLM FRASER, Western Australia, referring to the two principal woods supplied by the Colony he had the honour to represent—the Jarrah and the Karri—said that they were both highly appreciated at the Antipodes, the latter being the timber *par excellence* of Australia. A considerable quantity of these woods was now in London and could be obtained for about 7*l.* per load, equal to 50 cubic feet, and which was about half the price of teak. Moreover, railways had been constructed in the Colony with the view to the developing the supply of the timber.

Mr. P. L. SIMMONDS, while admitting the value of most of the New Zealand woods for useful and ornamental purposes—Brinsmead and others recognised their merits for furniture, &c.—expressed the fear that the Colony would not be able to compete with other sources of supply—first of the local demand, and next because of the long distance from the London market.

Professor MACOM (Canada) described in eloquent terms the valuable characteristics of the chief wood of the Dominion. The Douglas fir of Canada was fully equal to the white pine now employed, and when the supplies of the latter were exhausted the former would of necessity take its place. The Douglas fir grew in vast quantities, attained a great height, and tapered very gradually. In their black ash, too, the Canadians possessed a species of timber which would some day be very widely employed, for it had all the qualities of the now favourite white ash, and its supply was unlimited. The Douglas fir could be supplied in England at 5*l.* a load, and the black ash at the same price as elm or white pine.

Mr. E. A. COOPER (Cape Colony) commended the peculiar qualities of the Umzumbit wood—its hardness and durability. The cape yellow wood could be supplied as cheaply as any, the price being about 6*l.* 10*s.* a load.

Mr. A. Dent (British North Borneo) stated that the Billian wood, which offered great attractions to the English merchant, grew in enormous quantities, was very easy of access, and exceedingly hard and durable. As to its cost, one firm was already prepared to supply it alongside ship at 3*l.* 10*s.* per ton, to which about half as much again had to be added for freight, &c.

On the motion of Sir Philip Cunliffe-Owen, seconded by Sir. C. H. Gregory, votes of thanks were accorded to the chairman and to Messrs. Ransome & Co., and the proceedings closed.—Colonies and India.

=== MENTIONS (107) ===
type	text	norm	role
ORG	Institute of Civil Engineers	Institute of Civil Engineers	presided by Mr. Edward Woods
ORG	Messrs. A. Ransome & Co.	A. Ransome & Co.	manufacturers of wood-working machinery, Chelsea
ORG	Stanley Works	Stanley Works	works of Messrs. A. Ransome & Co.
PERSON	Colonel Beddome	Beddome	present at demonstration
PERSON	Colonel Lees	Lees	present at demonstration
PERSON	Colonel Percy Smith	Percy Smith	present at demonstration
PERSON	Dr. Trimens	Dr. Trimen	present at demonstration
PERSON	Hon. Alex. Hay	Alex. Hay	present at demonstration
PERSON	Hon. R. H. Meade, C.B.	R. H. Meade	present at demonstration
PERSON	Major G. Malet	G. Malet	present at demonstration
PERSON	Messrs. A., J. S., and L. H. Ransome	A., J. S., and L. H. Ransome	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. A. H. Vesey	A. H. Vesey	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. A. J. R. Trendell	A. J. R. Trendell	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. Alfred Dent	Alfred Dent	Commissioner for British North Borneo
PERSON	Mr. Alpin Thompson	Alpin Thompson	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. C. K. Stuart	C. K. Stuart	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. Charles Hawksley	Charles Hawksley	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. Edward Woods	Edward Woods	President of the Institute of Civil Engineers
PERSON	Mr. Ernest E. Blake	Ernest E. Blake	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. F. G. Baker	F. G. Baker	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. F. Josselyn	F. Josselyn	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. F. R. Saunders	F. R. Saunders	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. George H. Hawtayne, C.M.G.	George H. Hawtayne	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. H. J. Scott	H. J. Scott	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. H. Trendell	H. Trendell	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. Henry C. Beeton	Henry C. Beeton	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. J. C. Homershaw	J. C. Homershaw	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. J. L. Shand	J. L. Shand	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. J. R. Jefferies	J. R. Jefferies	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. James Thomson	James Thomson	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. N. P. Trevernen	N. P. Trevernen	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. Oswald Brown	Oswald Brown	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. P. L. Simmonds	P. L. Simmonds	representing New Zealand
PERSON	Mr. Sydney Cowper	Sydney Cowper	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. W. B. Lewis	W. B. Lewis	present at demonstration
PERSON	Mr. W. B. Pryer	W. B. Pryer	present at demonstration
PERSON	Professor Macoun	Macoun	representing Canada
PERSON	Sir Arthur Blyth	Sir Arthur Blyth	present at demonstration
PERSON	Sir Charles D. Fox	Sir Charles D. Fox	present at demonstration
PERSON	Sir Charles Hutton Gregory	Sir Charles Hutton Gregory	present at demonstration
PERSON	Sir Charles Mills	Sir Charles Mills	present at demonstration
PERSON	Sir Frederick Bramwell	Sir Frederick Bramwell	present at demonstration
PERSON	Sir Graham Berry	Sir Graham Berry	present at demonstration
PERSON	Sir James Garrick	Sir James Garrick	present at demonstration
PERSON	Sir John Coode	Sir John Coode	present at demonstration
PERSON	Sir Philip Cunliffe-Owen	Sir Philip Cunliffe-Owen	present at demonstration
PERSON	Sir W. J. Clarke	Sir W. J. Clarke	present at demonstration
PERSON	the Hon. Adye Douglas	Adye Douglas	present at demonstration
PERSON	the Hon. J. Gordon Sprigg	J. Gordon Sprigg	present at demonstration
PERSON	the Hon. Malcolm Fraser	Malcolm Fraser	representing Western Australia
PLACE	British North Borneo	British North Borneo	colony
PLACE	Canada	Canada	colony
PLACE	Cape of Good Hope	Cape of Good Hope	colony
PLACE	Ceylon	Ceylon	colony
PLACE	Chelsea	Chelsea	location of works
PLACE	Fiji	Fiji	colony
PLACE	India	India	colony
PLACE	New South Wales	New South Wales	colony
PLACE	New Zealand	New Zealand	colony
PLACE	Queensland	Queensland	colony
PLACE	South Australia	South Australia	colony
PLACE	Straits Settlements	Straits Settlements	colony
PLACE	Victoria	Victoria	colony
PLACE	West Indies	West Indies	colony
PLACE	Western Africa	Western Africa	region
PLACE	Western Australia	Western Australia	colony
PRODUCT	Ransomes' patent tree-feller	Ransomes' patent tree-feller	machine used for felling
PUBLICATION	Colonies and India	Colonies and India	source of article
TAXON	Bilian	Bilian	timber from British North Borneo
TAXON	Bitternut, or Swamp Hickory	Swamp Hickory	timber from Canada
TAXON	Black Pine	Black Pine	timber from New Zealand
TAXON	Black Wood, or Rose Wood	Rose Wood	timber from India
TAXON	Black, or Swamp Ash	Swamp Ash	timber from Canada
TAXON	Blackwood	Blackwood	timber from Victoria
TAXON	Blue Gum	Blue Gum	timber from New South Wales
TAXON	Box Wood	Box Wood	timber from Cape of Good Hope
TAXON	Chugalam	Chugalam	timber from India
TAXON	Douglas Fir	Douglas Fir	timber from Canada
TAXON	Forest Oak	Forest Oak	timber from New South Wales
TAXON	Iron Wood	Iron Wood	timber from Canada
TAXON	Ironbark	Ironbark	timber from New South Wales
TAXON	Jarrah	Jarrah	timber from Western Australia
TAXON	Kamassi	Kamassi	timber from Cape of Good Hope
TAXON	Karri wood	Karri	timber from Western Australia
TAXON	Kauri	Kauri	timber from New Zealand
TAXON	Long-leaved Pine	Long-leaved Pine	timber from India
TAXON	Mountain Ash	Mountain Ash	timber from New South Wales
TAXON	Padouk Wood	Padouk	timber from India
TAXON	Raspberry Jam wood	Raspberry Jam wood	timber from Western Australia
TAXON	Red Gum	Red Gum	timber from Victoria and South Australia
TAXON	Red Pine	Red Pine	timber from New Zealand
TAXON	Russock	Russock	timber from British North Borneo
TAXON	Sei Wood	Sei Wood	timber from India
TAXON	Serayah	Serayah	timber from British North Borneo
TAXON	Sissoo	Sissoo	timber from India
TAXON	Sneeze Wood	Sneeze Wood	timber from Cape of Good Hope
TAXON	Stink Wood	Stink Wood	timber from Cape of Good Hope
TAXON	Sugar Gum	Sugar Gum	timber from South Australia
TAXON	Totara	Totara	timber from New Zealand
TAXON	Tuart	Tuart	timber from Western Australia
TAXON	Tun, or Indian Mahogany	Indian Mahogany	timber from India
TAXON	Umzumbit	Umzumbit	timber from Cape of Good Hope
TAXON	Wandoo	Wandoo	timber from Western Australia
TAXON	White Box	White Box	timber from Victoria
TAXON	White Fir	White Fir	timber from Canada
TAXON	Yellow Wood	Yellow Wood	timber from Cape of Good Hope
TAXON	York Gum	York Gum	timber from Western Australia
