ID: vol007_tropicalagricult7188ceyl#1888-06#028
ISSUE: 1888-06  VOL: 7  SECTION: Correspondence
TITLE: FUEL SUPPLY FOR TEA.
BYLINE: 
WORDS: 1560  PAGES: ['809', '810', '811']
IA: https://archive.org/details/tropicalagricult7188ceyl/page/n836/mode/1up

=== TEXT ===
FUEL SUPPLY FOR TEA.

26th April 1888.

DEAR SIR,—It is highly undesirable that the public of Ceylon, and the good folks of other countries should be led away by the idea that starvation, as far as fuel is concerned, stares Ceylon in the face. Writings from men, for whom I have the greatest respect, however point so. I think it is incumbent on anyone possessing other notions to state them, and I shall endeavour to do so. Mr. Rutherford's writings and calculations are theoretically good and sound, but practically, in my opinion, bad, and calculated to give our now "tight little island" a character it far from deserves.

The future three starvation points are apparently to be 1st the Railway, 2nd the Coolies up-country, and lastly the Tea Factories and Estates.

1st. The RAILWAY.—Can anyone believe that a Government Railway, running from a large shipping port through a fairly well-wooded country, including vast reserve forests of its own, can starve from want of fuel? I cannot. It can, worked on more economical principles, afford to burn nothing but coal, transporting its own reserves of fuel if so desired to those who desire to purchase, but I fancy in the end purchasers will be few. The Railway, I do not consider, deserves another thought

102

2.—There was a cry nearly 20 years ago that the coolies on many estates could not exist for another 12 months for want of fuel. Take Rothschild estate for instance: it and its coolies have managed to exist through this famine and grown fat, too, and, I have no doubt, intend to live through another 20 years—one cooly per acre, working fairly regularly, is now, I believe, considered about sufficient for a tea estate. It is a very poor estate indeed that the prunings of 1 acre would not supply a cooly with sufficient for his inward and outward wants for a year. However, the poorer the prunings the fewer coolies required on such estate. He can also fall back on cinchona sticks, roots, cow-dung and, lastly, to him a never-failing source of firebrand, the Government. Taking all in all, I think we can dismiss the cooly!

3. TEA FACTORIES.—This is not so easily dismissed, but the difficulties exhibited are largely, I consider, reducible. Fuel is said to be necessary for two purposes, power to drive the machinery in some cases, and for drying the tea in all:—

*Power.*—In almost all the tea districts that I am acquainted with, in Ceylon, in the centre, or thereabouts, is provided a natural and immense water power. Some estates adjoin such power, others don't, and few, if any, utilize it. Our resident engineers have evidently been brought up to understand one thing only:—“Take the water to the wheel or turbine and we will give you so many horse-power; if you cannot do so, you *must* have a steam engine” (a heavy deduction from the yearly profits of a garden). Nine cases out of ten allow the power to go by, and the valuable fuel to disappear in smoke. This sort of thing, if Ceylon is to succeed as a rival to other tea producing countries, will not last. The power so mercifully provided throughout the country must be transmitted, as it is in other countries, and our worthy engineers must recommend something else than always the steam engine, and if they do not know that “other thing,” they must learn it. It is not for me here to say how power can be transmitted, but every one knows it can. Estates, too far from the power, must seek nearer quarters for their factories, and place them as often can be the case, off their own lands, even if they have to carry their leaf two or three miles; it sounds bad, but no worse than is being done on many places in the Island. Estates within reach of power will, after their own wants are supplied, generally if the “consideration” be sufficient, sell rights to their neighbours. Estates beyond all reach of power, and with no fuel, must be content to sell their leaf, and the competition for the manufactured article will ere long become so keen, proprietors will readily sell, and accept what an unfortunately situated estate can show as profit, but such estates will be few. It is all nonsense to think every estate *must* have its own factory on its own lands; if such is to be, undoubtedly fuel will be at a premium, and present calculations would be correct. Estates desirous of manufacturing their own tea, must, if necessary, either go to the power, bring the power to themselves, or sell their leaf; the three means are in all cases available, and no alarm need be felt on this score. Rather more scientific engineers than the island boasts of are, however, requisite to work out the system, and because it is something *new*, it must not be pooh-poohed. It is an extraordinary fact, however, that many estates I know of possess both available water-power to drive anything, and a steam engine besides. I have no mercy on such properties, throwing away money and burning others. Such peculiarities are often gone in for, rather than move, perhaps an

old coffee store, or even set of lines to be near the bungalow or cart road, etc.; all I can say is when next your boiler bursts, move to the water! So much for motive power, and if the resources of the country were utilized by 1-10th of the supply, little fuel is required as motive power for a tea garden. Avoid steam engines; they will prove a curse.

FUEL FOR DRYING.—I hold the opinion that ere long when actual necessity arises, dryers will be introduced, so economising heat, that the fuel required will be reduced to a minimum. I have quite as much right to believe in this as any one ten years ago, to say that the P. & O. “Britannia” would have made the run she did with the quantity of coal consumed. I believe the weight of fuel in a tea chest, say 22 or 25 lb., ought to be sufficient to dry the 100 lb. of tea contained in such chest, so that if tea chests are available, so is fuel, and we can take to steel boxes. We have oil to fall back upon, and it too if necessity arises, can be supplied without the enormous profits at present netted by sellers of the article. But go to any of the high points of our higher districts, and look round; thousands of acres of virgin forest stare one in the face, all available to shoot down to the valleys beneath, either in wood or charcoal. Government must and will unlock its reserves, and make them pay handsomely, must not encroach on its hill reserves for itself for fuel, but seek the low-country as its supply for the railway. Tea can be dried by oil equally well to the delicate pastry baked in a “Rippingille” cooking stove which is a good model for a tea dryer.

Therefore, “taking one consideration with another,” my own opinion is, Ceylon has no fear to apprehend as regards its fuel supply; there are heaps of it in the island, and for transport, the ever energetic planter will find the means. Motive power must be economised and sought for, and no one has far to seek. Take almost any tea estate you like to name in the island, using a steam engine, and you will find that with a little ingenuity and forethought, it could have found water power, even if, as I said before, leaving its own boundary by a mile or two, and the carriage of leaf to such factory would have been compensated for over and over again by first the transport of fuel to the engine; second, the value of the fuel itself. Water power to an estate is worth all in all, and few know how very little water is required with a good fall to develop 6 or 8 horse-power from a turbine.

Tea driers will be brought before the public ere long, using one-eighth of the fuel required for a “Sirocco,” “Victoria Drier,” etc.; the “Desiccator” has already made a great start in the right direction. If not, oil will come into use, and charcoal is light and of easy transport for railway or otherwise. The planting up of parts of estates with timber for fuel, I do not believe in for one moment, and, as far as I hear, few do. No piece of land to grow fuel to pay, but what will grow tea to pay. Twelve to fifteen years must be reckoned on as the shortest time to get any return from an acre of fuel, and, after all, what would it be? And compare it with the returns such an acre of tea would have returned, remembering that 7 or 8 years' purchase is about the limit of estate value in the colonies. It is the exception to find estates in our higher districts at any rate, but what every acre of land would grow tea, and if it would not grow tea, it would grow uncommonly poor fuel. I think you will find the tea-planter of the day will believe in looking to being able to purchase fuel for his time, and not plant it for posterity. I

think our fuel resources in Ceylon are like coal-mines in England. I remember, thirty years ago, an outcry at home that coal would run short in three years! In conclusion, let us take heart and don't cry "stinking fish."—Yours, X. Y. Z.

=== MENTIONS (12) ===
type	text	norm	role
COMMODITY	tea	tea	
ESTATE	Rothschild estate	Rothschild estate	
ORG	P. & O.	P. & O.	
PERSON	Mr. Rutherford	Rutherford	
PLACE	Ceylon	Ceylon	
PLACE	England	England	
PRODUCT	Britannia	Britannia	ship
PRODUCT	Desiccator	Desiccator	tea drier
PRODUCT	Rippingille	Rippingille	cooking stove
PRODUCT	Sirocco	Sirocco	tea drier
PRODUCT	Victoria Drier	Victoria Drier	tea drier
TAXON	cinchona	cinchona	
