ID: vol010_tropicalagricult1018ceyl#1891-06#030
ISSUE: 1891-06  VOL: 10  SECTION: 
TITLE: COFFEE SEEDS.
BYLINE: 
WORDS: 966  PAGES: ['836']
IA: https://archive.org/details/tropicalagricult1018ceyl/page/n881/mode/1up

=== TEXT ===
#### COFFEE SEEDS.

A correspondent of the *Madras Mail* (R. G. H.) questions the soundness of the view of an eminent English authority quoted by Mr. R. H. Elliot, that it is a mistake to make a choice of seed from the best trees on an estate to raise a nursery with, and that the seed should be chosen from trees grown on the poorest and most exposed situations. Mr. Elliott has very little doubt, according to his own statement, that the authorities he mentions are correct, and is also of opinion that the seed procured from poverty-stricken trees should be grown in nurseries composed of poor soil, to ensure, as must inevitably be inferred, a successful estate, and yet he asks for some practical opinion on the subject. This would appear to indicate a misgiving on the part of Mr. Elliot, as to the ultimate success of a venture of the kind. If Mr. Elliot is so thoroughly satisfied about the correctness of the theory that would be presented to him, the best thing to do would be to go manfully to work and experiment upon it. Planters generally are very keen in selection of the richest sites available for making nurseries upon, as also of procuring seed from the healthiest trees, and it is common for nurseries of long standing to be abandoned in favour of new spots owing to the soil being considered too impoverished to grow suitable plants for transplanting into the field. Planters are slow to experiment, and very few, if any, would be induced to make a departure from the method that has been in vogue since coffee-planting was begun, unless unmistakable proof were forthcoming that a greater measure of success had been found at the end of any innovation; and where none will experiment, the information called for by Mr. Elliot is bound for ever to remain a "sealed book." The majority of planters, have, at one time or another, had experience of nurseries composed of poor soil, but in no single instance have I known them to be held in favour. I think it is Hull, in his "Coffee Planting in Southern India and Ceylon," who recommends the growing of plants in poor nurseries if they are intended for planting out in old exhausted fields, or in new clearings not blessed with a rich soil, the idea being that the altered conditions under which plants transplanted from a rich nursery into a poor field would find themselves would prove fatal to them. There is a great show of reason

in this, but it does not affect the question of seed. I was recently told by a gentleman that the trees in the best field on his estate were grown in an extremely poor nursery and were filled with leaf disease when planted out. Here again the question of seed is not affected in any way. The plants may have grown up sickly and weakened owing to the poorness of the nursery in which the seed was sown, although the latter may have been obtained from the best trees imaginable, and when they found themselves in soil and conditions more akin to those in which the parent trees were luxuriating, the latent vitality in them, imbued from the latter, asserted itself and they grew up and proved themselves worthy of the stock they came from. Hull wrote in the palmy days before the advent of leaf disease, that dread scourge which decimated the once fine properties of Ceylon, and which threatens to become so serious a trouble to planters in India that, unless some remedy can be devised to at least minimise its effects, the planters will have to seek "pastures new," as Coorg especially is considered unsuited for the growing of tea. It is believed by planters of large experience that leaf disease does not come from any extraneous source, but is a sap disease,\* and that the seed is not free from the taint. Hence the necessity that is felt to obtain seed from the least affected trees to raise nurseries with. The whole question resolves itself into one on the question of leaf disease. Trees grown in poor soil and in exposed situations would of necessity, from being so unfavourably placed, be affected with the scourge pretty nearly the greater part of the year, and especially when there is an additional demand made on their strength to ripen the fruit on them, which can only be removed to be used as seed when thoroughly ripe. It frequently happens that these poor trees, especially if they have lost any considerable portion of their leaves, are incapable of thoroughly maturing the berries on them, they becoming, merely what is called "white ripe." It would, I am afraid, be impossible to grow highly tainted seed of this kind, especially in a poor nursery, free of leaf disease, and they would give but a poor account of themselves in the field, unless kept entirely free of weeds, highly manured, and otherwise carefully tended. High nursery beds thoroughly well drained are conducive to keeping plants as free as possible under existing circumstances, from leaf disease. I don't know how far the analogy sought to be established between wheat and coffee will hold good, but it is sufficient to know that wheat is free from fungi to make it of next to no account in this connection. The proposition propounded by Mr. Elliot might have answered in the good old days, but now I confess that I fear it has become somewhat problematical. I shall have gained my reward if this feeble effort of mine to offer some "practical opinion" on the question will promote a healthy discussion which will lead to the elucidation of a subject of pre-eminent importance to the planting industry.—*Indian Agriculturist*.

[We have no belief in this absurd theory of propagating from inferior seed of inferior trees grown on poor soil. We believe its author has abandoned it.—Ed. T. A.]

=== MENTIONS (13) ===
type	text	norm	role
COMMODITY	coffee	coffee	crop
COMMODITY	tea	tea	crop
COMMODITY	wheat	wheat	crop
PERSON	Hull	Hull	author of Coffee Planting in Southern India and Ceylon
PERSON	Mr. R. H. Elliot	R. H. Elliot	author of quoted view
PERSON	R. G. H.	R. G. H.	correspondent
PLACE	Ceylon	Ceylon	
PLACE	Coorg	Coorg	region considered unsuited for tea
PLACE	India	India	
PUBLICATION	Coffee Planting in Southern India and Ceylon	Coffee Planting in Southern India and Ceylon	book
PUBLICATION	Indian Agriculturist	Indian Agriculturist	source of article
PUBLICATION	Madras Mail	Madras Mail	newspaper
PUBLICATION	T. A.	The Tropical Agriculturist	editorial source
