ID: vol012_tropicalagricult1218ceyl#1892-08#060
ISSUE: 1892-08  VOL: 12  SECTION: NOTES ON PRODUCE AND FINANCE.
TITLE: GUM BARKS
BYLINE: BY DAVID HOOPER.
WORDS: 1723  PAGES: ['113', '114']
IA: https://archive.org/details/tropicalagricult1218ceyl/page/n138/mode/1up

=== TEXT ===
BY DAVID HOOPER.

Gum bark, or Pishir-puttai of the Tamils, does not refer to the bark of a tree which exudes a gum by bruising or incision, but denotes a bark which has such mucilaginous properties that it could be used for special purposes in medicine and the arts, where the white of egg would be used elsewhere. Barks of this description occur in the natural orders Malvaceæ, and Laurimeæ, and students of materia medica know that drugs of these orders, marshmallow root and the barks of arboreous cinnamons, for instance, contain a peculiar mucilage, which is not precipitated by alcohol. A typical gum bark of the East is that of *Kydia calycina*, a malvaceous tree, growing extensively on the slopes of the Nilgiris, and largely employed in sugar refining under the Tamil name of Kadularangy-puttai. On soaking a portion of this dried bark in water it rapidly swells, and the inside becomes coated with a slimy mucilage. The inner layers of the fiber may then be removed like pieces of lace, and the gum is seen to be occupying the spaces between the longitudinally disposed fibers, apparently formed from the cellulose of the broken cell walls. The bark of *Kydia* is sold in the bazars, and the decoction is taken as an astringent and tonic, and the Vythians or native doctors consider it to be a specific for diabetes.

Dr. Mohideen Sheriff, in the "Supplement to the Pharmacopœia of India," gives *Tetranthera Roxburghii* as the botanical origin of Pishir-puttai, but offers no description of the drug under that heading. Mr. Hollingsworth, of the Madras Medical College, some time ago supplied me with an authentic specimen of the bark of *Tetranthera laurifolia*, or as it is now called in the "Flora of British India," *Litsæa sebifera*. The bark was of a reddish brown color and slightly balsamic order, very different to that of cassia or cinnamon. The thickness was a quarter of an inch, and when soaked in water it became very mucilaginous. It offered, on analysis, distinct reactions for an alkaloid, which had the characters of laurotetanine, a poisonous base lately discovered by Dr. Greshoff in the barks of several species of Javanese lauraceous plants.

About two years ago a collection of drugs for identification was sent to me by Dr. P. S. Mootoo-swamy, of Tanjore, and among them was a specimen of Pishir-puttai which, he said, was collected from trees growing in the jungles near Point Calimere. This bark had a most agreeable odor, resembling, but not identical with, Indian cassia, and the taste was decidedly sweet. It made a slimy mucilage when mixed with water and contained some tannic acid, but no alkaloid resembling laurotetanine could be separated from it. The bark is sold in the bazars and it is known as Mydalakady among Moham-medans. It is used in medicine for its mucilaginous, demulcent and refrigerant properties. By powdering the bark with some benzoin, mixing it into a paste with a little water, and smearing this on reeds, and drying them in the sun, flavoring sticks called Sambooranyatthe are made, and are burnt as an incense or perfume. I have not been able to obtain the botanical source of this particular variety of gum-bark, but I am inclined to believe from its odor that it is an arboreous cinnamon.

From Travancore I have received on different occasions three specimens of gum-bark, all varying the one from the other. The first was a thick, red-colored bark, a commercial article on the western coast, supplied to sugar refiners. The botanical origin could not be ascertained; it differed in physical characters from the barks previously mentioned, and yielded an alkaloid having the reactions of laurotetanine. Probably it was a *Litsæa*. The second description of gum-bark was that of *Kydia clay-cino*. The third specimen was sent by the Conservator of Forests for Travancore; it was named in Malayalam Ava-tholi, and derived, it was supposed from a species of *Cordia*.

I have recently examined some samples of gum barks from the Madura district of Southern India,

15

and stated to be used by the hill villagers in increasing the alcoholic strength of sago toddy. The plants yielding these barks were up to this time only known by their vernacular names, but as leaves, flowers, and fruits were also sent these enabled them to be identified. The request was also made that they should be analysed to ascertain the nature and effect of their use in native spirit manufacture.

The seven specimens of bark were as follows:—

1. 1. Kadaly-marum\*—*Olea glandulifera*.
2. 2. Koppa-marum—*Litsæa Zeylanica*.
3. 3. Karukathan-gundu\*—*Hiptage Madabloba*.
4. 4. Mullu-gundu—*Jasminum flexile*.
5. 5. Pungala-marum—*Ligustrum Roxburghii*.
6. 6. Sudala-marum—*Litsæa wightiana*.
7. 7. Kumala-marum—*Gemelina arborea*.

The olea *glandulifera* is a stout, tall tree with white flowers and small black fruit. The bark is of a greyish color with whitish specks, about 1—6 of an inch thickness, breaking with a close granulated fracture, inner surface brown.

The *Litsæa Zeylanica* is a moderate sized tree with yellowish-white flowers and black fruit; the leaves are ribbed and whitish on the under surface. The bark is grey and covered with lichens, smooth, one sixth of an inch thick, fracture close, showing, white, glistening fibres running through the red substance of the middle and inner layers, brown and smooth internally. The bark gives off a fragrant odor when burning.

The *Hiptage Madabloba* is a woody climber, reaching to the tops of trees over 100 feet high. The stems are from half to three-quarters of an inch in thickness, and covered with a thin, smooth, reddish-brown bark enclosing a yellowish wood.

The *Jasminum flexile* is also a climber. The stems are about one inch in diameter, very woody and knotted, covered with a light yellowish-brown papery bark, exfoliating on the surface.

The *Ligustrum Roxburghii* is a stout tree about fifty feet in height. The bark is colored russet-brown and is a quarter of an inch or more in thickness; fracture close, showing thick white fibres running through the brown middle and inner layers.

The *Litsæa Wightiana* is similar to *L. Zeylanica* in many respects. The bark has a greyish-green epidermis beneath which is a chocolate-colored surface; the fracture is short and light colored, becoming red or brown by exposure to the air.

The *Gemelina arborea* is a common tree in the plains. The bark is about half an inch thick with a rugged, black and yellowish brown surface, middle layer hard and brown, fracture granular, ochreous within.

Some documents accompanying these specimens stated that the barks of these trees were used "to increase the intoxicating effects of sago toddy." The bark is simply placed in the toddy and left there for two or three days. The bark No. 3, it is said, is not so frequently used, as the resulting liquor causes headache when drunk. With reference to No. 7, it was said that a tenth part of it would answer the purpose in the absence of other barks.

It will only be necessary to give the results of the chemical examination of these barks, in so far as they are likely to explain their action in the fermentation of sugar. Three of the plants curiously enough belong to the natural order Oleaceæ; these are *Olea glandulifera*, *jasminum* and *ligustrum*, and like other plants of this order contain a peculiar bitter principle, soluble in water and alcohol, and a yellow coloring matter called quercetin. Two other barks of the series belonging to the same natural family of the laurels, and have a similar composition; these are the *Litsæas*. The *hiptage* bark contains tannin and is simply an astringent; and the *Gmelina* belongs to a class of plants distinguished for their bitterness.

The amount of extract dissolved out of the bark by water and alcohol respectively were determined in order to ascertain their relative proportion, as it would seem that in the absence of much resin, the

\* Marum=tree, gundu=climber (Tamil).

excess of water extract over the spirit extract would indicate mucilaginous matter, and on the barks being placed in the toddy, which in a fresh state is a watery solution of sugar, with some albuminous matter, the extract would dissolve, but as fermentation proceeded alcohol would be formed and the mucilage would be insoluble and precipitate, carrying down with it the viscid albumen and thus allow the sugar to ferment more rapidly. From the fact that other gum barks besides the *litsas*, such as *Kydia calycina* and *Guazuma tomentosa* are largely used in clarifying sugar, it is evident that some such object as this is intended in their employment. The astringent qualities of most of the above-mentioned barks are no doubt used for the purpose of forming insoluble compounds with albuminous matter in saccharine solutions; just as hops are used to remove this substance from malt liquor in the ordinary process of brewing beer. The hops are found to prevent in a great measure the tendency of the beer to become sour, in consequence of the conversion of alcohol into acetic acid, and in warm climates where such liquors are apt to run into the acetous fermentation very rapidly, it is necessary to employ astringent drugs to regulate the formation of alcohol and prevent the development of acetic acid.

The natives consider these barks a necessary ingredient in making spirit, for the following reasons. Firstly, they diminish the great sweetness of the toddy sugar. Secondly, they render the spirit more intoxicating. The first of these phenomena is accounted for by the chemical fact that sugar breaks up during fermentation into two other bodies, alcohol and carbonic acid; and in the second place the barks enable the operator to obtain a larger proportion of alcohol from his toddy than he could get from leaving it to brew without such adjuncts. The analyses of the barks, with the exception of the *litsas*, which contain laurote-tanine, has revealed no principle of poisonous or intoxicating properties, therefore the idea of their directly communicating a potency to the spirit is not sufficiently established, and, besides, as the spirituous liquor is submitted to distillation afterwards, any alkaloid, such as strychnine, would be left behind in the retort. Some of the barks are aromatic and these most likely are used to flavor the resulting spirit which would be the case if the aroma resided in a volatile oil. It is probably a spirit of this kind that Dr. Ainslie refers to under the title of *Puttaicharagum*, or bark spirit, an alcoholic liquor in which barks of various acacias are used in the manufacture.—*Oil, Paint and Drug Reporter*.

=== MENTIONS (39) ===
type	text	norm	role
COMMODITY	Ava-tholi	Ava-tholi	Malayalam name for gum-bark
COMMODITY	Kadularangy-puttai	Kadularangy-puttai	Tamil name for Kydia calycina bark
COMMODITY	Mydalakady	Mydalakady	name for gum-bark among Mohammedans
GROUP	Javanese	Javanese	
GROUP	Mohammedans	Mohammedans	
GROUP	Tamils	Tamils	
GROUP	Vythians	Vythians	native doctors
ORG	Madras Medical College	Madras Medical College	
PERSON	Conservator of Forests for Travancore	Conservator of Forests for Travancore	
PERSON	David Hooper	David Hooper	author
PERSON	Dr. Ainslie	Ainslie	
PERSON	Dr. Greshoff	Greshoff	
PERSON	Dr. Mohideen Sheriff	Mohideen Sheriff	
PERSON	Dr. P. S. Mootoo-swamy	P. S. Mootoo-swamy	Tanjore
PERSON	Mr. Hollingsworth	Hollingsworth	Madras Medical College
PLACE	Madura	Madura	district
PLACE	Nilgiris	Nilgiris	
PLACE	Point Calimere	Point Calimere	
PLACE	Tanjore	Tanjore	
PLACE	Travancore	Travancore	
PUBLICATION	Flora of British India	Flora of British India	
PUBLICATION	Oil, Paint and Drug Reporter	Oil, Paint and Drug Reporter	
PUBLICATION	Supplement to the Pharmacopœia of India	Supplement to the Pharmacopoeia of India	
TAXON	Cordia	Cordia	
TAXON	Gemelina arborea	Gmelina arborea	Kumala-marum
TAXON	Guazuma tomentosa	Guazuma tomentosa	
TAXON	Hiptage Madabloba	Hiptage madabloba	Karukathan-gundu
TAXON	Jasminum flexile	Jasminum flexile	Mullu-gundu
TAXON	Kydia calycina	Kydia calycina	malvaceous tree
TAXON	Laurimeæ	Lauraceae	natural order
TAXON	Ligustrum Roxburghii	Ligustrum roxburghii	Pungala-marum
TAXON	Litsæa sebifera	Litsaea sebifera	
TAXON	Litsæa wightiana	Litsaea wightiana	Sudala-marum
TAXON	Litsæa Zeylanica	Litsaea zeylanica	Koppa-marum
TAXON	Malvaceæ	Malvaceae	natural order
TAXON	Olea glandulifera	Olea glandulifera	Kadaly-marum
TAXON	Oleaceæ	Oleaceae	natural order
TAXON	Tetranthera laurifolia	Tetranthera laurifolia	
TAXON	Tetranthera Roxburghii	Tetranthera roxburghii	botanical origin of Pishir-puttai
