ID: vol032_tropicalagricul321909ceyl#1909-01#018
ISSUE: 1909-01  VOL: 32  SECTION: EDIBLE PRODUCTS.
TITLE: THE COCONUT PALM: ITS RELATION OF WEATHER TO CROPS.
BYLINE: 
WORDS: 1758  PAGES: ['27', '28', '29']
IA: https://archive.org/details/tropicalagricul321909ceyl/page/n44/mode/1up

=== TEXT ===
### THE COCONUT PALM: ITS RELATION OF WEATHER TO CROPS.

The following paper was read by Mr. J. D. Vanderstraaten, at the meeting of the Board of Agriculture on 3rd December, 1908 :-

The want of literature on the coconut palm has been often noticed, and is remarkable considering the great value of the palm to this Island. It not only contributes largely to the good of the people, and is directly or indirectly their chief course of income, but it furnishes the Government with 12 per cent. of its Revenue through arrack rents, and supplies the magnificent Harbour of Colombo with more than half of its export shipping tonnage, and may well, if the cultivation of the palm be encouraged and stimulated, supply quite two-third to three of the tonnage. The American Government, shortly after the acquisition of the Philippine Islands, began the scientific study of the coconut palm, which previously had not been, I believe,

the subject of scientific investigation; and it is very desirable that the Ceylon Government should, if it has not begun already, undertake researches into the life history and cultivation of the coconut palm on almost the same lines as the valuable researches concerning Para and other rubber-yielding trees. For, although the coconut palm is such a familiar tree to us all, as usual with all things with which we are familiar, accurate knowledge is wanting and much error prevails, some of a serious economic nature, *e.g.*, it is generally believed by the larger proportion of coconut garden owners (am I overstating it when I put it quite as high as 90 per cent?) that manuring is ultimately and soon hurtful to the tree, even fatally so, though at first attended with some increase of crop; this I say is a serious economic error, for the produce of the coconut plantations in the Island may easily be at least doubled by manuring the gardens. The experience of those who have cultivated and manured gardens previously innocent of either tillage or added fertilizers, has been that a three or even fourfold increase may be obtained and permanently maintained, without any shortening of the life of the trees. But, to convince the people of this and of it being quite within their means to properly cultivate their lands, it would seem necessary that a Government scientific department should carry out experimental cultivation and issue manuals in the vernacular, giving the results and all required directions. The advantages that would result to the country, to the Government and to the people within less than a decade, would be incalculable.

Amongst other misconceptions about the coconut tree may be mentioned the general belief that each tree bears twelve bunches of fruit a year; that heavy rain is beneficial, and the heavier the more beneficial; that, on the other hand, drought is hurtful, even drought of the kind that ordinarily prevails during the early months of the year. In this paper I propose to consider the relation between the weather and crops, and it is not inopportune, seeing that the rainfall this year has been throughout the Island much below the average, and in some districts the drought has been unprecedentedly severe, as in the Puttalm district.

At the outset I must disclaim having definitely succeeded in tracing the exact time relative between the weather and crops. I have formed a theory out of some data where many necessary data are required for accurate conclusions. It is with a view to elicit discussion and

to have my theory confirmed by others, or satisfactorily controverted, that I venture to submit this paper.

That there must be a relation between the weather and coconut crops is a simple truism, but can we reduce it to rules for our guidance in estimating future crops or in devising measures to counteract the effects of unfavourable weather? The question is not one merely of the amount of rainfall in a single year (the tree is one that is blossoming and bearing fruit all through the year), but of the intensity of the rainfall at various times, of its distribution, of the degree of saturation of the soil, the variation in the saturation from thorough as in the early weeks of the monsoons to greater or less dryage during drought, of the variation in the temperature and moisture of the air, the degree of sunshine and light as affecting transpiration and the formation of chlorophyll, and also the electrical condition of the atmosphere.

We all know roughly that extreme and prolonged saturation of the soil, as also extreme and prolonged dryage, are equally unfavourable. We know that extreme heat and extreme cold, that a prolonged period of dark cloudy days are all unfavourable to the production of blossom, while it has been generally noticed that a highly electric condition of the atmosphere is extremely favourable, but here our knowledge ends. When we enter into details our opinions differ greatly. We have not before us all the data for definitely framing our opinions, and it is extremely desirable that full observations should be carefully recorded of the various factors that affect coconut crops.

The experience of practical planters of the results of manuring and recorded observations of rainfall and crops should go a long way towards establishing a fairly workable theory on this subject. In manuring, especially in manuring a previously uncultivated garden, we find no increase in the crops during the first year, simply because the blossoms for the first year's crops were all out and set, and in various stages of development already when manuring took place—perhaps after a few months we find less of the tender young coconut (kurumbettis) falling, owing to the increased nourishment afforded by the manure, so also we notice a slight improvement in the kernel from the same cause. During the second and third years there is a marked and gradual increase of crop still due to the improved vigour of the trees and the consequent fertilizing properties of the pollen which otherwise would have been largely infertile. The increase of crop during the third year

may be quite double the previous yield or even more, but it is after the third year that the full effects of manuring are felt by the trees, the increase in nuts of previously unmanured gardens being quite four to five fold. I was much struck with this fact when I first began coconut cultivation and unable to account for the long interval required for manuring to tell in the case of coconuts, till curiosity led me to dissect the heart or cabbage, the pol-bada, of a healthy tree which was blown down by high wind. Counting all the flowers from the one just opened to the smallest spathe in the heart or cabbage that could be examined with a magnifying glass, I found there were thirty-four flower spathes in this tree, and the smallest spathe in the heart of the cabbage had clearly distinguishable miniature kurumbettis or female flowers. Now, taking sixteen as the average number of fresh branches (and each branch carries a flower spathe) put forth yearly by a healthy tree, we get two years and say two or three months for the last distinguishable spathe to arrive at the crown of the tree and burst into blossom—to this must be added another ten to twelve months before we can gather the fully matured nuts from that branch. This gives us the period of three years at least, and I suppose a few months must be allowed from the beginning of the manuring period for the initial formation of the flower spathe in embryo. I regret being unable to express myself in scientific terms. Scientists whom I have consulted tell me the flower spathe once formed in embryo, nothing can increase or diminish the number of female flowers it contains. May we not well conclude that rain or drought, too, increasing or retarding the flow of fluid (sap) in the trunk of the tree and otherwise affecting it, cannot increase or diminish the embryo female flowers already formed, and must therefore take the same time for its operation as manuring.

The records of crop and rainfall kept by some estates bear out also, I think, the theory I have advanced. These records also I think establish the fact that heavy and long continued rainfall, leading to prolonged and undue saturation of the soil, prejudicially affect the formation of fruit blossoms; but when a period of dry, sunshiny weather, almost amounting to drought (as in the early months of the year), follows on such heavy rainfalls, the conditions are extremely favourable.

The coconut tree thrives best with its crown exposed to the sun and wind (favouring transpiration, and in conse-

quence through the circulation of the sap the absorption of moisture from the ground. The root of the tree should be in favourable soil with easy access to running water.

We find the coconut tree flourishes into an average rainfall of 80 inches as in the Negombo district, and of about 50 inches as in the Puttalam district, but if the occasional torrential downpours which go to make up the total of 80 inches in the Negombo district are allowed for, the average would be about 50 inches—even 40 inches are not too low. It is necessary to avoid the extreme and prolonged saturation of the soil by drainage, when necessary, and the extreme dryage of the soil by tillage and mulching and also to increase the vigour of the trees by fertilizers to enable the roots to penetrate down in search of moisture when the surface supply is scanty in times of extreme drought.

The drought this year has been exceptionally severe, but when the land has been well tilled and mulched I do not think any serious harm has been done. In the Negombo district I can only trace the present effect of the drought in the thinness of the kernel we have been desiccating lately. Where the coconut roots have had access to water I do not anticipate any shortage of crop three years hence, but quite the contrary.

If owners of coconut gardens would even till their lands well (by ploughing or turning on the soil to a depth of 5 or 6 inches) and spread coconut fibre refuse—a cheap and satisfactory mulch to be had for the cost of transport—or use some other mulchy substitute, they will not even suffer the loss of tender nuts dropping in consequence of any drought that may prevail. Mulching has this to recommend it, that it not only prevents rapid loss of the moisture in the soil by capillary attraction, and so conserving it for the use of the tree, but by obstructing evaporation prevents the cooling down of the soil, which always requires to be warm for production of fruit blossoms.

=== MENTIONS (14) ===
type	text	norm	role
COMMODITY	arrack	arrack	source of revenue
COMMODITY	rubber	rubber	product
ORG	American Government	American Government	began scientific study of coconut palm
ORG	Board of Agriculture	Board of Agriculture	meeting held 3rd December, 1908
ORG	Ceylon Government	Ceylon Government	suggested to undertake researches
PERSON	Mr. J. D. Vanderstraaten	J. D. Vanderstraaten	author of the paper
PLACE	Ceylon	Ceylon	island
PLACE	Colombo	Colombo	harbour
PLACE	Negombo district	Negombo district	district with 80 inches rainfall
PLACE	Philippine Islands	Philippine Islands	acquired by American Government
PLACE	Puttalam district	Puttalam district	district with 50 inches rainfall
PLACE	Puttalm district	Puttalam district	district with severe drought
TAXON	coconut palm	coconut palm	subject of the paper
TAXON	Para	Para rubber	rubber-yielding tree
